>> Rodriguez: So yeah, hopefully you
all messed around with tables a little
bit using this kind of boilerplate
structure for your emails.
So let's look at how I would actually
code something like that relatively from
scratch here.
So I'm gonna go back into the starter and
just as a refresher,
we have the logo image up here, we have
a heading, hero image, some copy of
a nice big bulletproof button, and
then our footer stuff down here.
So when I start building
this out using tables,
I want to think of each of these as
an individual component in its own module
that I'll be able to swap around for
future emails as needed.
So the first thing I'm gonna do
is I like scaffolding this out,
so I'm gonna go ahead and,
>> Rodriguez: I'm
gonna comment this stuff that's there.
So I'm gonna add that first table in here.
So this is where something
like Emmet is handy.
You can just do table>tr>td, hit Tab and
it'll scaffold that out for you.
But we need to do here is override those
default behaviors from browsers and
email clients.
So we don't want borders on our table.
So we'll set border to 0.
We don't want cellpadding or
cell spacing in our email,
because that will add that
additional white space around those
different table cells, and
we absolutely don't want that.
We want to be able to control that
on a per cell basis as needed.
So cellpadding will be set to 0.
Cellspacing, again, will be set 0.
I mentioned that the structure it's
helpful and we start making things
responsive to have an outer fluid
table that's set to 100% wide.
So we'll do that.
And then we'll have a container table
inside of that, that'll be fixed width.
And that's what we'll be targeting when we
start making that response of using media
queries later on.
So I can take this, copy it, and
then just go into that table cell.
And adjust my spacing here cuz
I'm a neat freak sometimes.
And then this is where that container
cable will set it to 600 pixels wide.
Attributes, you don't
need to put PX in there.
It's assumed that by default it's pixel.
So if you want to override that with
a percentage, then you'd use percent.
But you don't need the PX in there, just
use 600, weird little HTML quirk there.
So you have your outer container table.
You have your inner fixed width table.
And then each of these table rows and
table cells will be its own component.
So I'm gonna to that, and then we'll make,
again, our logo will go up here.
And that will be its own table row and
table cell.
After that, we'll have,
again, our headline.
>> Rodriguez: We'll have the Hero image.
I'm gonna use Emmet here to make
things a little bit quicker.
And we can just go down and
do that for each of those components.
Which is nice because as we start
adding content to it, if we wanna
swap the headline or create an entirely
new kinda like article type section,
we can just copy those components,
paste it underneath the existing ones, and
build out really quickly these more
advanced layouts and structures for
our email campaign.
I actually do you have a more fully
developed version of this that follows
that exact same structure, but
it has the content filled out in here.
I don't wanna do that all manually and
waste everybody's time right now.
So we can look at this.
It's using the same
stuff we've seen before.
We have this fixed width image for
the logo.
It doesn't need to be responsive.
We have the h1 tag,
our semantic markup for our headline.
And then we have our hero image here,
which is using that responsive by default
image technique using max width,
min width, and width on the image tag.
All that same content we've seen before,
but now it's built out in this
modular table based approach.
I did mention that before when we were
first starting in that starter document
we were using a div as a container
cell for our kinda universal
styles that control the overall font
family and size and color of our text.
That's largely gonna be your
place in one of two ways.
If you have this container table,
you can set that for
that entire table using an inline style,
like we did here.
If you have specific content,
like the footer,
then you could do that in
the table cell itself.
So it's kind of like closest neighbor for
that bit of content,
that block that you're trying to style.
So since these two paragraphs live inside
of this table cell, we can do it on that
table cell itself just using,
again, that simple inline style.
And we're using those same reliable
CSS properties, like color, font size.
We can use margin and
padding on that table cell as well.
Padding tends to be a little
bit more reliable for tables.
Most email clients will respect
padding on that table cell.
But some of them, I think older versions
of Outlook, won't respect to the margin
property on table cells or
on certain block level elements.
So padding tends to be a little bit more
reliable if you want to make sure that
white space works across the board.
Since we're targeting all of this content,
except for that footer,
in our email campaign, we can apply
those inline styles on the table itself.
So again, we're just doing background
color, the color, font family, font size,
the line height, and
margin and padding here.
Anything you wanna override, though, you
can just do so on that table cell basis.
So here we're adding some extra
padding to this table cell, so
that when things get a little bit smaller,
we still have a little bit of space
around the edges on smaller screen sizes.
We do that across the board to just have
those equal so everything aligns properly.
If you want to get into
more specific targeting,
then you can move down and
drop down into that per element basis.
So for paragraphs, again,
we're adding this bottom margin and
make sure there's a little bit of
separation between our paragraphs.
If we want to do that to headings, we can.
If we wanna target our buttons,
then we would go down to that level and do
our CSS or our VML, whatever we're using
for that button on that element basis.
So pretty straightforward version of this.
Things get a little bit more complex,
a little bit more heavily nested as
we go into multiple column layouts.
So if we see this now and
pop it open, again,
same kind of email that
we've been building.
But before, we were seeing that
layout completely break in
the Outlook clients, so we were using
that div and max width on that div.
And it was breaking in Outlook.
But when we look at it now,
since we're using those tables and
Outlook understands those HTML tables and
the fact
that we're using that 600 pixel wide
width attribute on that table, it will
understand that we're trying to constrain
that design and it'll render it properly.
So Apple Mail looks great, as always.
But then as we start going
through the Outlooks,
you can see that everything's
looking as intended.
So we're not getting that blown
out version of the email.
Our images are constrained because
we have that width attribute set.
So that's, really, the main driving
factor for why we use tables and
email design is these Outlook clients.
Because they don't understand
float based designs or
more traditional kind of web design
approaches to structuring our content.
And that's why we have to fall back
to this slightly more outdated,
weirder approach to designing any kind
of web page, which is using HTML tables.
You can go through here and
you can see it.
Again, we're using that deprecated
center tag for our image up there.
You still don't get
the border radius stuff.
But you do get this really robust and
well defined layout,
which is what we're looking for
in our campaigns.
We just looked at that single
column tables document.
It's up there on the GitHub repo and
code pen for
reference if you need to look at it.
But yeah, this will work really
well across all email clients,
and it's a nice reliable way
to start coding your emails.